
	      Release Notes for Columbia MM version 0.88

For 0.88 we tried to make MM more easily portable, using the same
method that GNU Emacs does.  This involves a scheme where, rather than
trying to figure out which OS's have which features, we instead
conditionalize the code on feature-specific defines (such as
HAVE_FLOCK, HAVE_RENAME).  This requires a system-describing file
which contains all the appropriate #define's.  So far, we have
s-ultrix.h, s-sun40.h, s-bsd43.h, s-hpux.h and s-xinu-bsd43.h.  See
the INSTALL file for how to use these.  Please let us know if you have
problems with these.  We would appreciate it if you send us any new OS
files you write (like the pyramid one...).

One serious warning comes with this version of MM.  On our Suns
(running SunOS 4.0), we had a bit of trouble with locking files.  If
you tell MM to use FCNTL for locking (by defining HAVE_F_SETLK in
s-sunxx.h), but do not run a lock manager daemon (for example, if you
are trying to lock a file exported (via NFS) from an Ultrix system,
for which lock managers are not implemented), your MM process will
hang (in a socket wait) and there is no way to get rid of it.  The
process will be there until the system goes down.  Rather unfriendly.
For this reason, you may wish to fall back on the flock call, which
unfortunately does not do correct locking across NFS (but at least
doesn't hang).

We have found one small bug (while trying to announce MM 0.88), which
should be fixed soon, but decided to release 0.88 since it's about
time and since it seems to be an infrequent bug.  If you have an alias
which expands to a filename, and the file contains a groupname and
list of addresses, MM may core dump.  The workaround is to not use the
alias, just type in the file name.

The other warnings are just ones your compiler might give you when you
compile CCMD.  (We got these on our Suns.)  Compiling ccmdmd.c you may
get the warning "illegal pointer combination" since the signal() call
is sometimes defined to return void.  (This is fixed in MM but not yet
in CCMD.)  When ranlib runs, you may get the warning "ccmd.a (dir.o)
no symbol table" -- this is nothing to worry about.

And now, the new features in MM 0.88.

- The sys-profile program became sys-prof (for short file name SYSV
types...). 

- Many break mask fixes (allowing different characters in certain
fields).

- We have all new address parsing code that doesn't loop on invalid
addresses.  Instead, it asks if you want to use them (or not,
depending on the value of "use_invalid_address", which is a yes/no/ask
type variable).  Note that this is only invoked for parsing of
addresses within messages (when replying, for example) -- CCMD is
still used to parse addresses from the command line.

- MM now handles the case where the first address displayed is longer
than the terminal width.

- Escape completion on filenames now completes directory names by
appending a "/" and pausing, rather than assuming you want the file
which IS the directory.  The "directory-folders" variable can be used
to get the old behavior on mail-file name parses, and will be most
useful when MM handles mail formats (mh) where mail files can be
directories.

- MM now handles an "FCC:" header, which is where all filenames go.
That is, if you send mail "to *myfile" MM will automatically move that
to the FCC: field.  This prevents problems with replying to mail that
was sent to a filename and generally looks neater.  There is a new
"default-fcc-list" variable to match "default-bcc-list" and friends,
as well as "prompt-for-fcc" and an "fcc" command at the S> prompt.

- New "prompt-rcpt-always" variable to always prompt for fcc, bcc, and
cc (even if a recipient is specified in the line with "send").

- Fix bug in alias parsing -- don't recognize partial matches on alias
names.  So if you have a user named "joe" and an alias "joeshmoe", "to
joe" will go to user "joe".

- New "compat" module for file locking and other routines to support
compatibility.

- Redo file locking code to use fcntl when available.

- Make bugsto be bug-mm.  It is the responsibility of the installer to
set up an appropriate "bug-mm" alias on their system (see sys-prof).

- Add hooks for doing usage statistics (define USAGE when compiling to
get statistics, written to USAGEFILE as defined in pathnames.h).

- Provide for omitting From/Sender/Date headers from input passed to
sendmail.  Define DONT_EMIT_FROM_HEADERS conditional to suppress them.
(This allows sendmail to add them as it pleases.)

- Preserve protection of mminit over create-init.

- Messages in mbox or mtxt format kept gaining two hours every time MM
read them in from the file, just a little confusion over Daylight
Savings Time...

- Use split_args() to take apart editor and speller variables to pass
argv to exec().

- Various signal and process handling work.

- If display_outgoing_message is true, the last screenful of whatever
text exists is shown whenever entering text for message body starts
(that is, whenever a CCMD "paragraph parse" occurs),

- New files created with new file mode.

- Fix problem with autowrap not getting set right from mmfast file.

- In mailrc, understand '\' as a continuation character at end of line
and allow quoted strings in alias expansions.

- When writing mbox format put a ">" in front of any lines starting
with "From " since mbox format is so hoky.

- In mbox format, only accept the Flags: field in the header section
of the message.

- New hostname variables -- see s-xxx.h files.

- The mkversion program now exits with 0 so make is happy.

- Local pathnames (editor and friends) are now set in pathnames.h
instead of config.h.

- New prepatch program included which looks for patches in the current
directory and tries to automatically apply them (this may not work
yet). 

- When a sequence is "type"d, it now goes through more as a group,
rather than one message at a time (with immediate screen clears after
short messages :-).)

- The "reply" command now allows including/not-including and
sender/all in either order.

- Fix bug where sender field would get randomly trashed (mostly on
HP9000's).

- Add unkeyword message sequence to specify all messages without
keywords.

- Make % mean the same thing as * (last message) in a message sequence, as
in MM-20.

- Use a more pipe when showing all variables ("show<CR>"), since there
are SO many.

- Don't abbreviate "/" (root's home dir).

- sys-prof now writes stuff out to ./mm.conf instead of /tmp/mminit.

- The transform program is now more robust, and handles files from
that OTHER Vax MM :-).

